Supabase edge functions 401 troubleshooting (#43475)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/troubleshooting/edge-function-401-error-response.mdx

---
title = "Edge Function 401 error response"
topics = [ "functions" ]
keywords = [ "401", "error" ]

[[errors]]
http_status_code = 401
message = "Invalid JWT"
---

The function rejected the request for lacking the appropriate authorization headers.

## Context for the Error

#### The JWT verification check

By default, edge functions are configured to check requests for a valid [legacy key](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/api/api-keys#overview).

#### How the Check Causes 401 errors

> The check will fail and return a 401 permission error if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The check fails and return a 401 permission error if:
```

- The request includes an invalid legacy key, or
- The request uses the newer asymmetric keys instead of a legacy key.

#### What this Check Actually Does

This validation provides limited security value. It only confirms that the request includes a legacy token associated with your project, such as the anon key.

It does not validate the user's identity or permissions beyond that.

Because the security check is weak, it was deprecated when used with the new asymmetric keys.

## Solving the error

### Step 1: Identifying the error

<Admonition type="note">

If the tests return a 401 but don't match the criteria below, the error is coming from your app logic, not the JWT check.

</Admonition>

### Inspecting the return message

> When an edge function fails due to a platform 401 error, it will return the error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an edge function fails due to a platform 401 error, it returns the error:
```

    3. Substitute in the `PROJECT_ID`, `FUNCTION_NAME`, and `SECRET_TOKEN` in below [management endpoint](/docs/reference/api/v1-update-a-function). Then execute the request from a terminal environment

    ```sh
    # remember to substitute in your PROJECT_ID, FUNCTION_NAME, and SECRET_TOKEN
curl 'https://api.supabase.com/v1/projects/PROJECT_ID/functions/FUNCTION_NAME?verify_jwt=false' \
—request PATCH \
—header 'Content-Type: application/vnd.denoland.eszip' \
—header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_SECRET_TOKEN' \
—data '""'
    ```
    </AccordionItem>

  </div>

      <div className="border-b mt-3 pb-3">
    <AccordionItem
      header="With the Supabase CLI"
      id="item-3"
    >
With the [Supabase CLI](/docs/guides/local-development/cli/getting-started), you can redeploy your edge function without the JWT check:

```sh
supabase functions deploy hello-world --no-verify-jwt
```

    </AccordionItem>

  </div>
</Accordion>

If you would like to continue using the JWT check, make sure that your [Supabase Client](/docs/guides/api/rest/client-libs) only uses your [legacy keys](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/settings/api-keys/legacy).

## Additional resources

> - [Securing Edge Functions](/docs/guides/functions/auth)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- [Securing Edge Functions](/docs/guides/functions/auth)
```
